Happy Feat
Nikki
WB, Sundays, 9:30 to 10 p.m. ET

By Jenny Higgons, Gist TV Staff

Actress Nikki Cox is ecstatic about her new WB series, Nikki. So are her parents, but partly for a different reason. "All of the good money they spent on my childhood dance lessons is finally paying off!" she announces gleefully, referring to the lavish production numbers that will be an integral part of the show.



On Nikki, Cox plays a young woman who, in pursuit of her dream to be a prominent and successful hoofer, is forced to start out in Las Vegas as a showgirl in a cheesy dance revue. Nikki is married to Dwight (charming newcomer Nick von Esmarch), who ditched college to realize his own fantasy of becoming a professional wrestler. Adding to the couple's challenges is the frequent presence of his overbearing mother, Marion (acclaimed Broadway actress Christine Estabrook), who's livid with his career choice — and with Nikki, who she believes led him astray.



Though some may consider the 22-year-old Cox a bit young to be carrying her own show, she's earned it. Her television career began with a 1983 guest appearance on the sitcom Mama's Family. After an array of TV movies, Cox scored regular slots on the daytime soap General Hospital and the comedy series Norm and The Drew Carey Show. She's also appeared in a handful of feature films, among them The Nutty Professor II: The Klumps and Glimmer Man.




Considering Nikki's exorbitant production costs, WB also must believe that she's earned her acting chops. Bruce Helford, the show's executive producer, says its intricate dance numbers and accompanying ornate wardrobe make the show one of the most expensive sitcoms ever produced.



It's also one of the most arduous. "It's much more of a grind," explains Cox. "There's a lot more involved. You don't just go to work, [rehearse] the show and go home by 2 p.m. every day." And after a layoff from full-time dance training for almost 10 years, Cox had to get back up to speed months before the show started up production. "I had to get my butt in shape because it was pretty sad," she says, laughing. To add to the complexity, the dance extravaganzas add an extra week to the shooting schedule.




While Cox's TV character has to face assumptions that because she's a showgirl then she must also be a stripper, Cox also has had a professional cross to bear: casting directors and producers focusing on her striking body instead of her talent. But the actress admits that the situation has also had an upside and she's made peace with it.



"I'm not oblivious to the fact that quite often that's what's gotten me in the door," she says. "You bring what you do to the table and hopefully people get past it. It's just a goofy figure, you know. And it doesn't last. So hopefully I bring something more to the game."
