Little Nicky riffs on heavenly costars, hellish songs (his!) and everything in between

by Jeanne Wolf

Adam Sandler as the spawn of the devil? Not to worry, he isn't trying to change his image and outgross The Exorcist (and we're not talking box office). Sandler's loopy sensibility in such films as Happy Gilmore, The Wedding Singer and The Waterboy made him a star; that same goofiness comes to play in his portrayal of the son of Satan in Little Nicky.

Once again, Sandler is a loser who stumbles upon victory. Although it's a common storyline for his work, it doesn't exactly hold true in real life. The 34-year-old comedian has soared to the top in Hollywood since parlaying his small-screen success on Saturday Night Live into a string of hit movies and a succession of comedy albums that have sold more than 5 million copies. And then there's his enduringly popular "Chanukah Song."

In Little Nicky, Sandler is forced to leave hell in order to save his old man, the big daddy devil, played by Harvey Keitel. Along the way, he gets to fly high over the Big Apple, fall in love with Patricia Arquette and trade one-liners with his real-life idol, Rodney Dangerfield. And check out the dark-haired angel in heaven--that's Sandler's longtime girlfriend, Jackie Titone.

When you were a kid, what was your take on heaven and hell?
When I was growing up, I asked my dad, "Am I going to go to hell if I do this or that?" He was like, "Listen, you're not going to go to hell, so, don't worry about it." Heaven, I just thought, was a nice place. After I lost my grandparents, I knew they were up there. I thought about them having fun and looking down on me. I was just hoping I wasn't doing anything they'd think was too silly.

As you got older, did you ever do anything bad that made you think, Uh-oh, this will get me a one-way ticket to fire-and-brimstone?"
On occasion, I've done some bad things in my life, so I'd call up my father and say, "Dad, am I going to hell?" He'd go, "I told you not to worry about it."

Sounds like your dad is hardly the devilish type.
He's a very nice guy. My dad in the movie, Harvey Keitel, is the devil, but Harvey plays him as a nice guy--just a guy who has a job to do, punishing people who do bad things.

It's a bit of a surprise to see Keitel going for laughs in an Adam Sandler movie.
We just sent him the script, and he called and said he'd love to do it. Harvey cares about acting, that's his life. But he can be a funny guy, too, and he wanted to show that side of himself. He made me laugh every day. Every line he'd say, I laughed.
