dish, dirt & juicy bits

Flighty Behavior (LAX Departure)

I'm high as I write this, my prickly little petunia blossoms--very high.

Thirty-five thousand feet, to be precise.

And how great it feels. (Booze was never this elating, believe me.) eYada.com's invite to its first annual Gossip Summit in New Yawk couldn't have come at a better time. Needed the breathing space. (And, heaven knows, my lungs could use the Marlboro-free five-hour flight.)

Last week I congratulated John Travolta and Kelly Preston on their wedding anniversary. This was right after I wished Beverly D'Angelo and Al Pacino best of luck on the birth of their twins.

Judging by the hate mail I received for expressing those benevolent (and somewhat benign) sentiments, you'd have thought I said both couples should be boiled in baby oil.

(All right, so John--according to some chatty flies in the vichyssoise--flirted shamelessly with the help at their Cafe des Artistes celebratory dinner. Does that make all you non-mushy malcontents out their happy?)

Then there are the legions--whose truly vitriolic missives I regularly publish--who say I'm too mean.

Can't please everybody, so I'm just gonna please my felines, which means it's time to change the litter, my catty dears--ready to do some scooping?

Flighty Behavior (Kennedy Departure)

Now that she's single, Elizabeth Hurley isn't being shy about the things she wants. It's safe to say a big cargo hold is among them.

After an InWhySee screening of the new bargaining flick Bedazzled (in which Brendan Fraser does biz with the Devil, played by Ms. H.), Liz sped off to the airport to catch a private jet to Hell-Ay for the official premiere.

But when Hugh's ex arrived at the Learjet Fox had leased for her, she discovered it was simply too tiny to accommodate her pricey luggage (nearly a dozen items).

So, the devilish dame did what any creature worth the horns on her head would do: huffed back to her hotel, tail most definitely not between her legs.
