The superstars discuss remaking the H.G. Wells classic

"It's the biggest, smallest movie that we've made," says Tom Cruise, taking a break from shooting a scene for the  updated adaptation of "War of the Worlds." 

In the Steven Spielberg-directed film, Cruise plays everyman Ray, a  dockworker who struggles to save his family in the midst of a devastating alien  invasion. It's this human story, embedded in epic events, that drew the actor to  the project. 

"I'm playing a father in this," he explains. "You know I can play a father  ... [It's] very important to me in my life." Cruise has two adopted children  with ex-wife Nicole Kidman. 

Of course, reuniting with Spielberg, his "Minority Report" director and friend, didn't hurt either.  Both men are smiling and relaxed as they sit in a small inn in Piru, Calif. The  actor is still in his movie wardrobe: jeans, worn navy-blue hooded sweatshirt  and brown leather jacket. 

Just half an hour earlier, Cruise was attempting to creep a van through a  crowd of 700 extras playing refugees whose homes were demolished by aliens. In  the scene, Cruise's character has the only working vehicle in the city, which  causes the hapless survivors on foot to riot and pull him from the van. 

A group of journalists observing the scene could barely see the van -- much  less glimpse the star through the vehicle's windows -- while huddling under a  tent several yards away to avoid a soaking by the rain machines overhead.  Ironically, the day's shooting schedule had to be pushed forward to avoid the  real rain that was forecast for later that evening. Apparently, genuine  precipitation is too inconsistent for filming, one reason Spielberg had to  complete his New Jersey shoots at the beginning of production. 

"You can get a great day and it's beautiful and it's snowing and then two  days later it's gone," explains Spielberg. "And it's hundreds of thousands if  not millions of digital effects and physical effects to snow in 50 acres of city  streets and farmland." 

Although "War" is based on the 19th-century novel by H.G. Wells, it's  the 1938 radio adaptation that inspired Spielberg to bring the tale to the big  screen. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)