A teen film critic recommends 10 movies that adults will  respect his peers for seeing

By Frank PaivaSpecial to MSN Movies

Frank Paiva has been writing about movies since he was 12. He graduates  this June from the Lakeside School in Seattle. He will attend New York  University in the fall.

With the rampant junk available in our nation's multiplexes, it's easy for  adults to dismiss all current teen movies as being just about sex, killing  people or the prom. Many grown-ups refer to the classic good old days, when  studios made movies that mattered, with big, gorgeous stars who didn't have  their own reality TV shows. What many of my fellow teen-agers don't know is that  numerous films from the past are just as relevant and entertaining today as they  were in the decades they were originally released. Adults aren't lying to us;  they're just being a bit unfair.

My hope is that one day the gap will narrow and teens and parents will have  intelligent conversations about movies. If only my generation were to see and  discuss some older films with their parents, teachers and other adults, perhaps  they'd stop stereotyping us as people who only spend their entertainment money  on smutty horror movies, Hilary Duff CDs and anything involving Paris Hilton. Family dinner conversation points would be a  breeze. It would be the end of awkward silences. Most of all, there could even  be an exchange of respect.

With that in mind, fellow teens, here is a list of 10 great movies to see,  nine old and one new. They're all very different, but as an 18-year-old with a  short MTV attention span, I found them all appealing. With any luck, you'll see  them, talk them up to some adults, and gain their admiration in the process.

'The Wizard of Oz' (1939)I only include this on  the list because I've actually met several people my age who've never seen it.  Not just one or two people, several. I find this horrifying. Shame on you people  who haven't seen "The Wizard of Oz"! I really believe all decent human beings  need to see Dorothy (Judy Garland) click her ruby slippers. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)