By Kim MorganSpecial to MSN Entertainment

Ask random people to name the most terrifying moment from last year's "The Grudge" (or "Ju-On," the Japanese film on which it was based) and many will  say that freaky little kid who lets loose with a piercing feline scream/moan.  Why? Because few things are scarier than thinking that kids -- those unspoiled  symbols of purity and innocence -- are instead really out to get you... and  perhaps even kill you. There are psychological reasons for this; for example,  deep down, many of these films reveal a fear of parenting. And there's the  twisted storytelling logic wherein kids make the best, creepiest villains. It's  just so perverse to see, say, little Dakota Fanning scaring everyone with her imaginary  friend in "Hide and Seek," or the emotionless look on Damien's face in "The Omen" after his nanny jumps out of a window. So, to bless  the child, and to prepare for the return of that eerie, raven-haired freak  Samara Morgan in "Ring Two," we're listing our favorite creepy kids in  cinema.  Read on, reflect on your younger years... and maybe, go ahead and  cancel your babysitting shift for the night.  

10. The Village of the Damned (1960)The film hasn't  worn as scary throughout the years, but there is something iconic about these  blonde, mod-looking children with their blank, penetrating glow-eyes. And  disturbing, too, since they can make people do things they didn't intend to do  (like, oh, drive their car into a wall). Taking a cue from the blonde psycho  from "The Bad Seed," this cult classic decided to flood an entire  English village with flaxen freaks, unleashing a horror that's tough to fight --  who wants to attack the kids? After women become pregnant under bizarre  conditions (let's just say their husbands have nothing to do with it), out pop  scores of Vidal Sassoon-haired babies who grow up freakishly fast and claim  superior brains, but are seriously lacking in the social skills department. They  also appear to be in on some secret, which is truly the film's scariest conceit.  If you just think about it and transfer it to real life, the idea of a bunch of  grimly serious little blonde kids, dressed in matching clothes, glaring at you,  would be terrifying. It certainly wouldn't be cute. 