By Sean AxmakerSpecial to MSN Movies

As anyone who has ever read the original, unadulterated Brothers Grimm can  tell you, real fairy tales are not sweet. They are dark, dangerous and primal.  They reach into the darkest corners of our imagination and threaten us with our  most basic fears. We've since sanitized them in storybooks and movies, the  better to protect the fragile little minds of our modern wee ones from  nightmares. Just compare Disney's treatments of "Cinderella" and "Sleeping Beauty" with the strange and weird Brothers Grimm  originals, where the villains are punished with violence and mutilation in the  vengeance-filled happily ever-afters. What parent wouldn't want to soften those  grotesque edges? 

It's been left to directors like Tim Burton and Terry Gilliam to dredge up those forgotten shadows, and they  show no signs of ending their romp through the dark corners of fantasy and  imagination. "The Brothers Grimm," Gilliam's latest genre-trampling  fantasy is a slapstick thriller with nightmarish edges, while Burton follows up  his eccentric remake "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" with the innocently  macabre "Corpse Bride," an animated storybook romance by way of  Charles Addams and Edward Gorey. 

Yes, those primal instincts still occur, but usually with a grown-up audience  in mind. Here are the best of those fairy tale movies for big kids.

10. "Snow White: A Tale of Terror" (1997)Leave all  memories of Disney behind. This revisionist take features a gang of outcasts  standing in for the dwarves, a tarnished Prince Charming and a stepmother (Sigourney Weaver) who turns wicked with insanity. Monica  Keena plays the headstrong heroine as a defiant adolescent on the verge of  adulthood, a whirl of hormones and romantic fantasy. But Weaver steals the film  with her witchy portrait of hysterical narcissism and medieval madness. Though  it never quite delivers on its promise, the landscape of this darkly handsome  production (it was shot in Czech Republic) casts a spell over the film, as if  bringing it to the folkloric roots of the original fairy tale in all its  grotesque and grim (or, if you will, Grimm) dimensions.