One of those rare horror films that had lasting impact at the box office, Gore Verbinski's "The Ring" was not a one-weekend wonder. Based on "Ringu," a 1998 Japanese movie about a lethal videotape, it held  on in multiplexes for months, becoming one of 2002's most profitable American  films.  

A sequel was inevitable, although DreamWorks broke with tradition by giving  the job to Hideo Nakata, the original director of "Ringu." He's  making his American debut with "The Ring Two," which carries over two essential  members of Verbinski's cast: Naomi Watts as Rachel Keller, a  Seattle reporter, and David Dorfman as her young son, Aidan.  

But while the location has changed, from Seattle to the Oregon coast city of  Astoria, Nakata is stuck with the same limited gimmick: a hypnotic videotape  that sucks people into television sets and transforms them into hideously  deformed corpses. Like most sequels, "The Ring Two" turns repetitious and  desperate as it tries to match the impact of the original.  

Rachel and Aidan have moved away from the city to suppress their more  unfortunate memories, and she's taken a job at The Daily Astorian. But the  ornery cassette (or one of its offspring) has followed them. Soon it's  generating nightmares that may or may not be real, some of them involving  Rachel's apparent abuse and attempted murder of her child.  

Nakata does pull off a few spooky effects. The first of the tape murders is  genuinely scary, and there are a couple of "boo" moments that catch the audience  by surprise. A broad-daylight scene in the woods, in which deer surround and  threaten Rachel and Aidan in their car, is simultaneously frightening and funny.  An episode in which Aidan insists on saying "I love you, mommy" is oddly  chilling because she's used to him addressing her as Rachel.  

Has Aidan simply transformed himself into Damien, the demon child of "The Omen"? Dorfman certainly plays him that way, though the idea  doesn't go very far. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)