A teen film critic recommends 10 movies parents should see to  better understand their kids

By Frank PaivaSpecial to MSN Movies

Frank Paiva has been writing about movies since he was 12. He will attend  New York University as a freshman in the fall.

Adults are often quick to judge today's movies, specifically the ones their  teenagers watch, calling them morally corrupt, uninteresting or just plain not  worth their time. While these statements do describe the majority of available  product in the marketplace, they leave out several modern gems your kids have  likely gobbled up in repeated viewings. These movies are perfect for an  interesting evening of family consumption and discussion. The trick is knowing  if parent and teen should watch a movie together, or if the parent should merely  pay for their kid's "House of Wax" matinee ticket and wave good-bye.

Here, for the sake of clueless parents around the world, is a list of 10  films to help you relate better to your kids. Each is accompanied by a narrow  and very unfair stereotype about what type of teen has probably seen and loved  this movie. Find the one that fits your child best, and align yourself  accordingly. Chances are they've seen a few of these even if the description  doesn't sound like them. 

And may I please note that someone fueled the creation of several Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello beach movies in the mid-'60s by buying  tickets to these films? This means any adult unwilling to give today's fads and  films a chance needs to take a look in the mirror at their own past  mistakes.

'Pride and Prejudice' (1995)If you have an  intelligent bookworm of a daughter, she's probably seen this five-hour  miniseries from A&E, featuring the dishy Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy and the lovely Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennet. The film, of course, is  an adaptation of the classic Jane Austen novel, and deals with love, tragedy and  class struggle. I'm consistently amazed by how many people I know who have  watched this in its long entirety, so I had to check it out for myself. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)