Kevin Federline can breathe a huge sigh of relief: It looks like he won't  have to find gainful employment anytime soon. People reports the perma-stubbled,  job-averse former backup dancer is -- for now at least -- back in the lap of  luxury, otherwise known as the Malibu mansion of his meal-ticket missus, Britney Spears.  

According to the magazine, the semi-retired pop starlet, 24, "settled back  into" her estate on Tuesday with K. Fed, 27, and their 3-month-old son (and  future tell-all author) Sean Preston.  

The reunion came just about a week after Britney gave the party-prone Kevin  the heave-ho after an angry dust-up, which purportedly began after one of his  baby-unfriendly acquaintances, whom the singer not-so-affectionately nicknamed  "the weedman," popped by their deluxe digs, according to Star.  

Making matters worse, adds the Insider, was that the visit came on a  so-called "Britney and Kevin day," a specific time they've set aside to spend  alone with Sean, no friends or family allowed.  

A spy tattles to People that the trashtastic twosome's headline-making  squabble was so stormy that Spears let fly the word she knew would strike fear  in her unkempt hubby's creature comfort-loving heart.  

"She wanted a divorce," a Brit confidante tells the mag.  

Kevin, who has reportedly resisted his wife's attempts at marriage  counseling, is said to have made a beeline for the Beverly Hills Hotel after the  blowup. According to Us Weekly, Britney was so irate that she cut off his access  to her credit cards and had two of his cars, including his beloved $200,000-plus  Ferrari, towed away.  

A Federline insider, however, has a different take on the tussle, blaming it  on the pressures of poopie diapers and that whole pesky "until death do we part"  thing.  

"When she's upset with him, he likes to give her some space," the mole tells  People. "I don't think she's upset with him because of something specific he's  done. I think she's overwhelmed with her new lifestyle -- being a wife and  mother -- and sometimes takes it out on the people who she's closest to and who  she knows will stick around."  

Soon after tossing Kevin out on his baggy-pantsed butt, Britney burned off  some steam by hitting the L.A. hotspot LAX, where she boogied down with pals.  

"It was definitely a girls' night out," says a club insider. "Kevin was being  punished."  

As punishments go, "clubbing with pals" doesn't sound like the most effective  deterrent, and it certainly didn't stop Federline from doing some disciplining  of his own over the weekend, as he enjoyed the many delights Las Vegas has to  offer.  

Spears, who turned 24 on Dec. 2, also winged into Sin City, reports People,  but chose to hole up at the Wynn Resort with Sean and her mother, Lynne, while  her husband crashed down the street at the Venetian. She also made a statement  by reportedly swapping her cornea-searing wedding ring for a bauble bedecked  with a skull and crossbones.  

(Lynne, by the by, apparently isn't the biggest fan of her son-in-law, with  an insider telling the New York Post, "She hates Kevin ... The mom and everyone  around Britney is telling her to get rid of [him]. Kevin isn't going anywhere --  Britney is picking up the bills.")  

From Vegas, Britney make a quick trip home to Kentwood, La., to get in some  quality time with her mom and sister Jamie-Lynn (she also jetted there in  October amid talk that the marriage had hit a rough patch) before heading back  to Malibu with reconciliation on her mind.  

"This has happened before," a source tells the magazine. "They always work it  out."