By Frank PaivaSpecial to MSN Movies

This holiday season features an unusual number of Hollywood films featuring  gay themes. While movies dealing with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender  (LGBT for short) issues and characters are nothing new, the star power and  studio marketing support behind films like "Rent," "Brokeback Mountain," "Breakfast on Pluto," "Capote," "The Dying Gaul" and "Transamerica" are unprecedented. Moreover, each of these films  tells a story with universal appeal. They just happen to feature main characters  that love their own sex or believe they were born as the wrong gender.

The past decade offers a wealth of amazing LGBT movies that most of the  straight moviegoing public mistakenly ignored, assuming the films weren't  intended for them. The truth is that although they are not mainstream titles  like "Boys Don't Cry" or "Philadelphia," these movies are great for everyone and deserve  a wider audience. Here's what to rent the next time you're stuck at the video  store:

"Beautiful Thing" (1996)As we've learned from "The Sound of Music," the beginning is usually a very good place  to start. "Beautiful Thing" is one of the first in a long line of quirky gay  teen coming-out movies -- and still one of the best. It laid the groundwork for  literally tens if not hundreds of other films with exactly the same plot.  Jonathan Harvey adapts his excellent play for the screen, showing us the growing  attraction between teenagers Jamie (Glen Berry), an unpopular boy, and his jock  next-door neighbor Ste (Scott Neal). Did I mention one of the characters thinks  she's Mama Cass? That's pretty awesome.

"Bound" (1996)Best known as "That Lesbian Movie the  Wachowski Brothers Did Before the 'Matrix' Trilogy," this steamy, kick-ass crime thriller has long  been a secret favorite of frat boys everywhere for its, um, cinematography. The  film follows lovers Corky (Gina Gershon) and Violet (Jennifer Tilly) as they plot to steal money from the  mob. What's amazing about the movie is how funny it is. It makes you convulse  with laughter, yet at the same time you're on the edge of your seat wondering  what will happen next.

"But I'm A Cheerleader" (2000)A wicked satire of a  sadly all-too-true phenomenon, "But I'm A Cheerleader" follows Megan (Natasha Lyonne), who doesn't realize she's a lesbian  even though everyone else does. Her parents ship her off to True Directions, a  demented "homosexuality rehabilitation" camp run by Cathy Moriarty. The camp  reinforces gender stereotypes from the 1950s in an attempt to make gay teens  straight. But soon Megan meets Graham (Clea Duvall), and her lesbian feelings only get  stronger. It also features RuPaul in a supporting role ... as a man!

"Latter Days" (2003)This is the  best of the  recent melodramatic two-guys-fall-in-love-against-all-odds film sub-genre. This  movie scores points for refuting stereotypes and examining homosexuality in the  Mormon community. The forbidden relationship in question is between Elder Aaron  Davis (Steve Sandvoss), a sweet Mormon missionary living in an apartment next to  flamboyant Christian (Wes Ramsey). Soon love grows between them, and Aaron must  make important decisions about his life and faith. If naming a gay character who  knowingly initiates a relationship with a Mormon missionary "Christian" isn't  twisted symbolism, I don't know what is.

"Ma Vie en Rose" ("My Life in Pink") (1997)This  simple French film follows Ludovic (Georges Du Fresne), an  elementary-school boy who dresses and acts like a girl. Ludovic believes  his female chromosome has gone missing and can't understand the neighborhood  uproar about his dress or his desire to marry the boy next door. The French  version of Barbie even makes an appearance in this film that puts transgender  issues into perspective.

"Nico and Dani" (2000)This is one of those sweet and  subtle movies that never could've been made in America. Nico (Jordi Vilches) and  Dani (Fernando Ramallo) are living every other 17-year-old's dream: They have an  upscale beach house all to themselves for a summer in Spain. Both boys see the  summer as a chance to lose their virginity, but find their relationship  complicated when Nico is interested in girls and Dani is interested in Nico.  

"Show Me Love" (1998)This film -- whose original  Swedish title we can't print here -- is actually a tender love story between two  teenage girls struggling with their identities and small-town life. A  relationship slowly develops between the two. The feature debut of acclaimed  filmmaker Lukas Moodysson is one of those essential coming-out  movies that every lesbian must see.

"Soldier's Girl" (2003)This heart-wrenching movie  had a brief theatrical run before appearing on Showtime. It really deserved a  bigger audience. Based on a true story, it follows Private First Class Barry  Winchell (Troy Garity), who begins an uneasy relationship with  Calpernia Adams (Lee Pace), a transgender woman. Who knew the token  white guy from the "Barbershop" movies could really act? Or that this companion piece  to other hate-crime films like "Boys Don't Cry" or "The Laramie Project" would be so effective?

"Southern Comfort" (2001)Winner of the Grand Jury  Prize at the 2001 Sundance Film Festival for excellence in documentary  filmmaking, this touching movie follows the final year in the life of Robert  Eads. Eads is a female-to-male transsexual dying of ovarian cancer on his way to  Southern Comfort, an annual convention of transgender people in the South.  Watching this movie will transform your definition of gender and will also  reinforce the generally evil reputation of the modern American medical system.  

"Strawberry & Chocolate" (1994)This story  explores the friendship between two Cuban men -- the gay and right-wing Diego  (Jorge Perugorria) and the straight and Communist David (Vladimir Cruz).  Initially their relationship is one of adoration from Diego and suspicion from  David, but it grows into something more. A wake-up call to the realities of  living in a Communist society, the film's title comes from a surefire gay  detection technique. David knows Diego is gay when they go to the park and he  chooses strawberry ice cream over chocolate.

Frank Paiva has been writing about movies since he was 12. He is a  freshman at New York University.

Have a favorite movie you wish made the list? Think something here is totally  overrated? Whatever you have to say, let us hear it! Share your thoughts at heymsn@microsoft.com