By Sean AxmakerSpecial to MSN Entertainment

Comic-book sensibility doesn't mean what it used to. Sure, the "Spider-Man" and "X-Men" and "Batman" films have taken the four-color ink and  newsprint adventures into the realm of supe-operas -- splashy, action-packed  melodramas where the personal torments carry as much power as the physical  challenges. 

But while these show a greater sophistication of the superhero genre, the  comic-book movie has also grown beyond the cape and cowl -- just like the comic  book itself. The explosion of underground comics of the '60s and '70s opened up  the medium for alternative stories and styles.

The anthology magazine Heavy Metal offered comics for mature audiences on  newsstands. Comic-book specialty shops offered a market for "ground-level"  comics, which ranged from superhero spoofs like "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles"  to the autobiographical vignettes of "American Splendor." Comics legend Will  Eisner ("The Spirit") ushered in the concept of the graphic novel with his  groundbreaking "A Contract With God." Comic-book titans Marvel and DC followed  suit with specialty divisions that pushed the boundaries with such acclaimed  work as "Watchmen" and Frank Miller's "The Dark Knight Returns."

Fans wait impatiently for the oft-delayed "The Watchman" to hit the big  screen, but many other graphic novels and alternative comics have made the  transition to the screen, some more successfully than others. From Robert  Crumb's "Fritz the Cat" to the superhero spoof "Mystery Men," from Alan Moore's inspired "League of Extraordinary Gentlemen" to the gritty gangster  thriller "Road to Perdition," filmmakers have found a wealth of  stories and characters outside the superhero genre.

This year alone, the supernatural anti-hero hustler of the defiantly adult  comic series "Hellblazer" became "Constantine," starring Keanu Reeves. Now, Frank Miller's sucker-punch of hardboiled  fiction on steroids, scotch and concentrated bloodlust, "Sin City" -- the most graphic of graphic novels, in terms of  both style and violence -- has been adapted to screen in all its stark, brutal,  two-tone glory. Director Robert Rodriguez ("Spy Kids") was so dedicated to capturing Miller's cynical  sensibility and searing graphic style that he drafted Miller to adapt his own  work to the screen as co-writer and co-director of the feature. Together, they  literally splash Miller's iconic panels and pages across the big screen. 

While you prepare for that, check out these titles that represent the best of  the alternative comic book movies:

10. "The Mask" (1994) Jim Carrey's loony-toon energy and elastic comic expressions  ramp up this toned-down adaptation of the dark slapstick comic. He's the closest  man will come to embodying the wolfish desires and rubbery reactions of a Tex Avery cartoon character. That is exactly what happens  when the Norse Mask of Loki falls into Carrey's hands and unleashes the bottled  up Id of the unsuspecting schlub. Director Chuck Russell helps Carrey sneak in a little of the comic's  demented payback fantasies, but mostly it's just an eye-popping live-action  cartoon with an unleashed actor at his most animated.