We preview 'Batman Begins,' and look back at the different  cinematic incarnations of the Caped Crusader

By Kim MorganSpecial to MSN Movies

Holy remakes!!! How many ways can Hollywood portray "Batman"?

From the campy '60s Adam West version to the equally  campy George Clooney outing, five films have brought the  beloved Bob Kane DC comic to life -- five different visions, of varying  quality, that have delighted, disappointed and ignited arguments among Batman  aficionados everywhere. Now comes Number 6: the eagerly awaited, promisingly  dark "Batman Begins."  

Why all the attention? Batman has long been the favorite superhero  of comic-book/graphic-novel fandom, offering a wealth of rich, dark material for  a filmmaker to mine. We are inspired/fascinated by traumatized rich boy Bruce  Wayne and his alter-ego Batman because he doesn't possess any  superpowers -- just a super brain, super gadgets, super car, super rage and a  super, devoted butler. He's the brooding film noir-esque anti-hero whose  hometown of Gotham City is so filled with corruption and evil that it has  stained his soul. Batman is so deeply troubled and so deeply violent, you're not  sure just which side of good or evil he's on. 

This is just one reason we're especially excited for Christopher Nolan's "Batman Begins," starring the  wonderfully twisted and intense Christian Bale ("American Psycho," "The Machinist") in the title role. They appear the perfect pair  to take Batman back to the dark side. Will it be the definitive portrayal of the  Caped Crusader? We've seen it, and we'll give you our verdict below. But before  we get to Bale's bat-ting average, we thought we'd fly down memory lane to take  a look at the previous Bat-visions that graced or disgraced our big screens.  

'Batman: The Movie' (1966)Bat  facts: Taken from the campy and colorful TV show, Leslie H. Martinson's "Batman: The Movie" has long  been regarded as a gleefully guilty pleasure. The story has Gotham City's four  greatest criminals joining forces to, yes, take over the world. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)