SDCC 10: The Detail of DC Universe Online
You know how you imagine the Batcave? It's in here.

July 27, 2010

Greg Miller

After years of waiting – and a ton of previews -- we're in the homestretch when it comes to DC Universe Online, Sony Online Entertainment's superhero MMO. The beta's about to launch, the release date has been set at Nov. 2, 2010, and fans around the world are dreaming of the hero or villain they're going to create when the game comes out.

All that's left to do is ship the game and wait for IGN's review, right?

Well, yeah, but that isn't stopping SOE from showing new stuff here at the San Diego Comic-Con. On the show floor, you can take up arms with a buddy and compete in two-on-two matches where Batman and Nightwing take on the Joker and Harley Quinn.


Of course, folks watching DC Universe Online's progress are well aware that the whole point of this game is to create your character and chart your own legacy instead of playing as established DC heroes and villains. These player-versus-player rooms aren't part of the main game and are just moments where you can take up the tights of iconic characters for fanboy showdowns -- fight by yourself, with your friends, or against them in these little offshoots. You'll actually unlock characters to battle as and arenas to battle in as you go through your story.

I could sit here and run you through how the game controlled (hold down shoulder buttons to use your face buttons for special moves), but I've actually done that more than a few times in the previews I've already mentioned. Instead, let's talk about how cool the Batcave looks.

See, the battle I was in tasked Batman and me with protecting the Batcomputer in the Batcave from the Joker and Harley. Every time one of us was knocked out, that team lost points. If the Batcomputer was hurt, we lost points. The first team to run out of points lost the match. Simple stuff.

However, I wasn't really able to focus on the mission at hand. Instead, I found myself running all over the cave and exploring. Back when I first met Jim Lee, he talked about the iconic stuff he and the developers were bringing to this game to make it feel like the world you knew. Jump ahead two years, and I'm leaping around the Batcave and scoping out the T-Rex, the giant penny, the docked Batplane and the oversized Joker card. It looked exactly like I'd expect the Batcave to look – although I didn't see Robin costumes under glass – and that's pretty rad for a DC fanboy like myself.

The rest of the game is looking nearly as cool. As I moved around as Nightwing, he'd eventually go into a run if I didn't lay off the thumbstick, and from that, I could do an acrobatic jump (arms out, legs together) that just screamed of Dick's circus background. Nightwing's model looks detailed and solid, and the same can be said for Batman – although I did notice that the Dark Knight's cape was giving the PC some framerate issues as it kept popping in and out. Still, the issue wasn't affecting the gameplay.

Of course, the MMO action doesn't look like the action in Uncharted or Gears of War. It's a bit stiffer with numerals flying off bad guys as you land blows, but I dig it. After years of waiting, I'm ready to play this game. The characters look good, the idea of being Superman or Lex Luthor's student is rad, and I've waited this long.

Make it November already so we can see if this thing pans out or not.
