Checking In With the Jonas Brothers
We talk TV and touring with the band of brothers
By Deanna Barnert
Special to MSN TV

Nick, Joe and Kevin Jonas are three busy brothers. They're currently on tour with Demi Lovato, their Disney Channel series returns for a second season on June 20, and they're starring in the sequel to the mega-successful "Camp Rock," which airs later this year. We caught up with the guys to get the scoop on their various projects, how they do it all and why they love their fans.

Photos: Jonas Brothers | Related: Demi Lovato Interview

MSN TV: How are you doing today?

Kevin: Amazing.

Nick: Fantastic.

Joe: I was actually just thinking about how good I feel right now. I thought I would be tired, but I'm good.

You have so much going on! Let's start with "JONAS L.A." What can we expect from the revamped and retitled "JONAS" series?

Kevin: It's going to be neat. We pack our bags from New Jersey and come out to L.A. for the summer. We want to explore what L.A. has to offer, and we took it outside of the box. We went on location and filmed everywhere outside. The first shot you'll see is us on top of the Renaissance building, with the entire view of Los Angeles. It's amazing. We took it to another level, and I'm excited, especially because Disney Channel did the first-ever continuous story line for an entire series. That will be neat, too.

Nick: I love the use of the word "neat" in that. That's like a lost art form.

Kevin: Did I use it a lot?

Nick: No, it's great. It's a good word.

Is it true the vibe is different this season?

Nick: It's heavy stuff. So much drama. It's soapy!

Kevin: Like I said, it's neat. Soapy goes in there. [Laughs.]

Joe: Like Pine-Sol.

Nick: We're done with that joke. On to the serious part: The changes made to the show are things we're all very happy with: the new location, the writing staff and directors. Everyone did a great job, and the continuous story line provides for some cool stuff for relationship and story arcs. Last season, it was more difficult to do that, because you'd have to start over each time.