Super Mario Galaxy 2 Updated Hands-on

We get a look at some new Mario and Yoshi powers in a few fresh level designs.

by Craig Harris
March 31, 2010 - Super Mario Galaxy 2 has a lot to live up to: the original game holds the rightful spot as the best game on the Wii console. The idea of getting more of the same isn't necessarily a bad thing when it comes to the original Super Mario Galaxy -- more of the best Wii game ever? Who would dare complain about that? The question, however, is how Nintendo is going to make Super Mario Galaxy 2 stand on its own; how it's going to build the game to have it stand apart from being just a "me too, more levels of a 2007 game release" type of design. 

We've been getting small tastes of the game over the past month or so, and earlier this week Nintendo had the gaming press over to its Bay Area office to take a deeper look at Super Mario Galaxy 2 in action. This was the first time we got a peek at the game progression; the last time we played with the game, levels were selectable only through a basic debug menu. And now that we can see how these levels are going to be presented and how players progress, it's now slowly making sense on how Super Mario Galaxy 2 will feel different from the first one. 


Yes, Super Mario Galaxy 2 uses the same Galaxy/Planet system of levels from the first game, and each "galaxy" level has at least one star -- many times multiple starts -- to collect at the end of the platforming challenge. But instead of selecting the galaxy from the observatory overworld like in the original game, you're instead working through a very, very familiar world and level tree that feels much more at home in a Mario game. You know the type: the world map that's been in 2D Mario games since Super Mario Bros. 3? Well, that's how you work through the levels in Super Mario Galaxy 2. But there's a twist. 

Nintendo showed off "Starship Mario," a large Mario Face planetoid (a version which is seen in past trailers and screenshots) that Mario can explore and chat with Toads and Lumas scattered all over Mario's enormous noggin. This is what will carry you from World to World, from Galaxy to Galaxy. You can visit Starship Mario at any time for power-ups and 1ups, and the galaxy you're in will be reflected in the themed background of Starship Mario. Nintendo didn't show off everything about this personal planet, so there will definitely be more to talk about on our next hands-on. 


During our playthrough we could check out five levels we've never experienced before, two of which introduced brand new Mario mechanics. For example, Boulder Bowl Galaxy introduced a brand new Mario suit: Rock Mario. This stone-shaped mushroom will power-up the plumber with a granite suit and when you shake the Wii remote, you'll roll up Mario, a la Samus and the morph ball, into a sphere that'll bowl over anything and everything. You can steer Mario in this form but he doesn't have a very good turning radius, and unless he smashes into a hard enemy or a wall, he'll continue to roll…many times right off the edge of a level if you're not careful. The level designers clearly have fun right away with this ability, throwing bowling pins in Mario's way, egging the players on to score a strike by rolling up into a giant boulder. At the end of the level, you get to fight a giant armadillo named Rollodillo, who curls up into an even bigger boulder to squash Mario flat. Luckily his backside is unprotected. 