Goodnight, Sweet American Prince
Sept. 30, 2010, 8:19 PM EST
By Richard T. Jameson
Special to MSN Movies

Tony Curtis, the last of the studio-made movie stars, whose career ran from the tail end of the 1940s into the present millennium and included such films as 'Some Like It Hot,' 'Spartacus,' and 'The Boston Strangler,' died at midnight Sept. 29 at his Las Vegas home. The cause was cardiac arrest, though it was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that had hospitalized him back in July. He had trouble breathing, which had to mean he had trouble speaking, which had to have been agony for someone who always had a quip at the ready. Usually, it was a good quip, smarter than you'd get from most showbiz celebrities, and delivered with a snap.

He was born Bernard Schwartz, the second among three sons of Hungarian immigrants, and also, indelibly, a son of the Bronx. The family lived in the back of the father's tailor shop and once were so hard up that Bernie's mother turned him and his younger brother over to an orphanage. The way he told it, in two memoirs and many an interview, it may have been the kindest thing she ever did for him.

His formal education stopped at one year of high school. Then again, a sharp young fellow could learn a lot in the streets, and also at the movies. When World War II came, Bernie joined the Navy and saw service on a submarine (or was it a submarine tender?--bios differ). He and his crewmates spent a lot of time running 16-millimeter shipboard prints of Hollywood films. After a while, everybody knew the films by heart, so they'd kill the sound and speak the lines themselves. A favorite was 'Gunga Din,' and you just know who played Cary Grant.

Following the war, the G.I. Bill enabled Bernie to study acting at The New School in New York City. Classmates included Rod Steiger and Walter Matthau, but Bernie, with his flashing eyes and beguiling forelock, was the one a casting director offered a contract with Universal (then Universal-International) Studios in Hollywood. The studio kept him busy playing bit roles in one indifferent movie after another, though he made his very first appearance in a great Robert Siodmak film noir, 'Criss Cross' (1949): unbilled, but impossible to miss, he can be seen doing a wicked rumba with Yvonne De Carlo. He was 23. Exit Bernie Schwartz, enter Anthony Curtis.

Within a few years, Anthony had become Tony and was getting top-billed in Arabian Nights potboilers like 'The Prince Who Was a Thief' (1951) and 'Son of Ali Baba' (1953). It is necessary to note for the record that at this point Tony Curtis was a joke. Not he himself, but the idea of Tony Curtis as framed by snarky presspersons and nightclub comics, who would have you believe that in one of those desert pictures he spoke the line, 'Yonda is the castle o' my fodda.' He didn't (no more than his idol Cary Grant ever said, 'Judy! Judy! Judy!').

Yet there's a gleam of truth in the canard. Tony Curtis was, and would remain, one of those actor-star-celebrities whose identity could never, ever, entirely recede into the background of the viewer's consciousness. To be perfectly double-negative about it, he could never not be Tony Curtis. This isn't to deny he was a good actor, or suggest that he was winking at the camera (though sometimes he did). But the unlikeliness, the sheer impertinence, of his having achieved stardom forged a bond with the audience. There was a zone between the public and the screen, between our mundane reality and the land of shimmering light and shadow. And Tony Curtis, né Bernie Schwartz, was our ambassador to it.

He was also, you might say, an escape artist. It made sense that Paramount Pictures borrowed him for the title role of 'Houdini' (1953), in which his co-star was Janet Leigh. They had married shortly before--a career choice, as well as life choice, for Curtis knew they photographed well together. The couple would go on to do four other films: 'The Black Shield of Falworth' (1954), 'The Vikings' (1958), 'The Perfect Furlough' (1959), and 'Who Was That Lady?' (1960). They divorced in 1962.

In the meantime, Curtis seized several opportunities to get away from swashbucklers and show his seriousness as an actor. The European-based 'Trapeze' (1956) gave him the chance to work with a top director, Sir Carol Reed, and hold the screen opposite producer-star Burt Lancaster (who had watched him do that rumba in 'Criss Cross'). Next came 'Mister Cory' (1957), a Blake Edwards gambling picture with an up-from-the-gutter story line paralleling Curtis's own story in provocative ways. Curtis took the role in his jaws like a rat terrier. (That film is ripe for rediscovery.)

And he must have impressed with his 'Trapeze' moves, because Lancaster's production company beckoned with 'Sweet Smell of Success' (1957), a crackling Broadway fable that may be the career best of just about everybody involved. Curtis played Sidney Falco, a public-relations artist courting the favor of ruthless columnist J.J. Hunsecker (Lancaster) and willing to exploit/betray/ruin absolutely anyone in order to score his piece of the big time. The film's world is perpetual night, cold as dry ice, with dialogue that sounds--and cuts--like glass shattering. And no one handles that dialogue more knowingly than Curtis. Shunned by Eisenhower-era audiences and the Oscars alike, the film is now universally acclaimed as a classic.

For Curtis, acclaim did come soon afterward. In 1958, in producer-director Stanley Kramer's 'The Defiant Ones,' Curtis co-starred with Sidney Poitier as two prison escapees on the lam in the rural South. Chained together by racial animus as well as links of steel, the men eventually face up to their shared humanity; again Curtis risked playing an unsympathetic character (though not one as unredeemable as Sidney Falco). Both actors received Academy Award nominations as best actor. They lost, and Curtis never had another shot at Oscar--not even for his part in Billy Wilder's 'Some Like It Hot' (1959), many people's nomination for best American movie comedy ever. Again Curtis was metaphorically 'chained' to another traveling companion, fellow jazz musician Jack Lemmon, as they flee gangsters after inadvertently witnessing the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. They disguise themselves as women (unnervingly convincing women), and to seduce Marilyn Monroe, Curtis veers into yet another disguise as a millionaire oil man with an upper-crust accent--the ideal occasion for trotting out his by-now-perfected Cary Grant impersonation.

He did finally get to work with the real Cary Grant (who loved the impersonation, incidentally) in Blake Edwards's 'Operation Petticoat' (1960). It was a Navy comedy, and in fact Curtis had a good run playing fast-talking con artists in uniform; see also 'The Perfect Furlough' and, in 1963, 'Captain Newman, M.D.' However, he topped all those roles with his work in 'The Great Impostor' (1960), a biopic about real-life role player Ferdinand Waldo Demara Jr., who convincingly passed himself off as a Marine, a Trappist monk, a military surgeon, and a prison warden, among others.

The peak years were coming to an end, even if Curtis would remain busy for another four decades in films (over 100) and TV. In the all-star epic 'Spartacus' (1960), he rated a special 'and Tony Curtis as Antoninus' credit; thirty years later he would have to rerecord his lines in one scene cut from the general-release prints but restored for a 1991 reissue. In 1961's earnest 'The Outsider,' he played Ira Hayes, the Pima Indian who helped raise the American flag on Iwo Jima. The lumbering Cossack extravaganza 'Taras Bulba' in 1962 introduced him to German actress Christine Kaufmann, who would become his second wife (1963-67). Mostly, though, comedy had become his genre. This included a final outing with Blake Edwards in the overlong, overblown reserved-seat attraction 'The Great Race' (1965), in which Curtis's good-guy hero The Great Leslie is so pure, his teeth glow when he smiles. The film also re-teamed Curtis with Jack Lemmon, who played a Batman-worthy villain named Professor Fate.

A last peak moment (faux peak, to be more accurate) came with 'The Boston Strangler,' a 1968 true-crime drama about the hunt for serial killer Albert DeSalvo, who did in 13 women before being caught. Curtis's performance, totally stripped of customary charm, glamour, and lightness, cued talk of another Oscar nomination, but talk was all it amounted to. Really, the not-Tony-Curtis thing just didn't work.

There were six marriages in all (don't get us started about the affairs, romances, and flings). Wives number three through five were Leslie Curtis (1968-82), Andrea Savio (1984-92), and Lisa Deutsch (1993-94). Jill Vandenberg Curtis stayed married to him from 1998 till his death; she was 40 years his junior. Three of his offspring have had acting careers--sporadic in the cases of Kelly Curtis and Allegra Curtis, long-running in the case of Jamie Lee Curtis. Son Nicholas died of a heroin overdose in 1994.

In addition to show business, Tony Curtis also was an accomplished painter; some of his work is in the permanent collection of New York City's Museum of Modern Art.

But let this be the last word. One spring evening in 1993, Tony Curtis was in New York to take part in a tribute to his old 'Some Like It Hot' sorority sister Jack Lemmon. Actually, it was the night before the tribute, when those who would be participating in the gala could get together for a low-pressure dinner. Hosting the event was a prominent financier and Film Society of Lincoln Center board member whose name may surprise you. That gentleman stood just inside the door greeting the guests, and now through that door came Tony Curtis. He appeared--as so often--to be walking on springs. The host took his hand and said warmly, 'I'm Bernard Schwartz.' With flawless timing, as if Billy Wilder had written the line, Tony Curtis said, 'Nobody's perfect,' and kept on moving. Cue end title.