Chatting With 'Glee' Star Chris Colfer
The 'Glee' scene-stealer relives high school in style
By Sona Charaipotra
Special to MSN TV

On "Glee," Chris Colfer plays Kurt, a newly out, fashion-forward diva who's got a major jones for the sadly straight FinnÂ  [Cory Monteith]. But Colfer's own (very recent) high school experience was pretty different.

We caught up with the 19-year-old Central California native to chat about his love for "Nip/Tuck," whom he'd like to see guesting on "Glee," and Kurt's latest plan to snag Finn.

Video: Watch full episodes and clipsÂ | Photos: The Cast of "Glee"

MSN TV: You graduated high school not too long ago. Were you a diva like Kurt?

Chris Colfer: Oh, I wish I was like Kurt. I was totally Rachel Berry [Lea Michele] meets Sue Sylvester [Jane Lynch]. I actually was quite the underdog, a complete Gleek. I was so not a fashionista, and still am not. I still have to really think about it, like: "If Kurt saw me in this, how could he insult me today?" I am starting to pay more attention to fashion now.

But when I was in school, I was too busy being super-involved in a lot of activities and I tended to be really gung-ho about them. Like, I was the president of the writers' club. But I was also the only member of the writers' club. That pretty much sums up my high school experience.

And you were a writer; you did a revamp of "Sweeney Todd"?

Oh yeah, my senior year, for the senior show, one senior had free rein to take over the stage. And I got the chance, so I wanted to show what I could do, how serious I was about the craft. I wanted to do a show that would be funny and adult, so I wrote this spoof, which I called "Shirley Todd." It was "Sweeney Todd," but with all the roles gender-reversed. So I was Mr. Lovett rather than Mrs. Lovett, and it took place in modern-day punk-rock London. I just loved it. It really made me want to do this for real.

Related: The Road to Gleekdom | Photos: "Glee" Season in Review

So how does a kid from small-town Clovis, Calif., end up on "Glee"?

It all started early, early, early on in Oral Interp -- that's a group that tells stories and sort of performs the stories. So I did that and I loved that. And that turned into school plays, and from that I did community theater, and that got me to here. And a family friend of a family friend happened to be an agent. Because, you know, the Central Valley isn't the bastion of the entertainment industry. So I signed up with her when I was a freshman in high school and auditioned and auditioned and auditioned for years. But it wasn't until after I graduated, the summer after my senior year in high school, that I auditioned for "Glee." It was the first thing I ever got.

But you knew of the show's creator, Ryan Murphy?

Oh, I was a huge fan of Ryan Murphy. In fact, I was so obsessed with "Nip/Tuck," I actually changed my school schedule so that I would have a free period the first period on Wednesdays so I could sleep in from watching the show the night before. I think I was drawn to it because it was just so insane and so out there. So for a small-town kid like me, watching it, it was like candy. I never had a teenage rebellious period ever because watching "Nip/Tuck" was my rebellion.

And you originally didn't audition for Kurt; it was written for you.

Yeah. I auditioned for Artie [a role that went to Kevin McHale]. But I didn't get that part. But, through the process, I met Ryan Murphy, the show's creator, and we got along really well.