Tales From the 'Fringe'

We hit the set of the sci-fi series to get the goods on its return to primetime

By Sean Axmaker
Special to MSN TV

They may look warm and solid on TV, but walking through the sets of "Fringe" as the production wraps the final eight episodes of the season, all I can think is how cold it is. It's winter in Vancouver and all the sets are in big, unheated warehouses. One complex houses Massive Dynamics, a maze of hallways and offices and laboratories that look they've been suddenly evacuated in the midst of activity. There's no shooting here today so me and a small group of TV journalists are ushered through a quick tour. Quietly, because the sturdy walls of America's most successful research and development firm are little more than plywood, canvas and paint and there's a scene underway in the next set over. In between takes I get a chance to talk with a few cast members who have the day off.

Nina Sharp's office is the showcase room of this set, a cavernous space of acute angles with a lone desk in the corner and a huge picture window carved pitched diagonally in the opposite wall with a view of the New York skyline, which turns out to be a giant photo blow-up. Appropriately enough, that's where I sit down with Blair Brown, who plays the show's corporate uber-villain. "Is she a villain? I don't know. I think she has her moments." Fair enough. We've seen some different sides to the powerful Ms. Sharp this season, including still-unexplored histories with Olivia and Peter and even Agent Broyles. And Brown clearly relishes the role a woman who likes to be "the smartest person in the room." In this company, that's no mean feat.

The show marks Brown's first regular TV series since "The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd" and she was resistant to jump back in until she talked to creator J.J. Abrams. "He said to me a lot of ["Fringe"] came from "Altered States," which was my first big movie, and he said when he was a teenager and saw this, he said, 'Wow, if you're going to have a character in a mainstream entertainment talk about the nature of the universe, this is what I want to do'."

While Blair Brown continued interviews in her office set, Jasika Nicole and I grabbed a couple of chairs in a newly-constructed Massive Dynamics hallway. It's still under construction, with hanging wires and exposed ducts visible at the far end of the hall, but the darker hues and low light ambiance makes this handsome addition a more ominous space than the clean white walls and open spaces of the entrance, offices and labs we've seen so far. New doors hide potential secrets and future rooms, though at this point they only offer access to the back wall of the warehouse.

It was all new to Nicole. Her character, Agent Astrid Farnsworth, is usually playing lab assistant and babysitter to Walter Bishop in his Harvard lab (painstaking recreated in Vancouver for the second season, right down to the archaic equipment and cow stall), and two seasons in she still, periodically, has to correct his distracted name calling. "The audience hasn't heard half the funny names he's called me," she laughs. "He called me Agent Fartsworth, which is a really great one that hasn't made it to TV yet. He's called me Afro. We just throw names back and forth because it's such a great little joke." The final eight episodes have given her more opportunities to get out of the lab and even out of character. She sings in a musical episode ("If Astrid gets killed on this show, she has to get traded to "Glee." I'm just sayingÂ ...") and plays her parallel universe twin. She won't give anything away, but she does promise that "Astrid there is very, very different."

I was ushered into a laboratory in the Massive Dynamics warren to talk to Lance Reddick. As Agent Broyles, he commands the FBI's Fringe unit, and he's just as commanding out of character, even when discussing the developments of the second season. "As the show goes on you realize how much Broyles doesn't know," he explains, "how much he's got to figure things out as it's going on himself."

Then Nina Sharp herself swept through the lab. No, it wasn't a case of the CEO surveying her domain. The back exit was closed due to shooting on the set next door so Blair Brown was leaving through the maze of connecting rooms and hallways. I asked Reddick about the increasingly interesting relationship between Nina and Broyles. "He trusts her in a restricted way. They're allies, not friends, even though you find out that they are friends." Well, based on the kiss that Nina gave him in the second season premiere, I'd say they were more than friends. Reddick just smiles and says, "There's a lot of backstory being revealed as this season unfolds."

John Noble, whose eccentric genius scientist Walter Bishop has become the show's signature character, was not able to break away from shooting that day but I managed to snag a short phone interview later while he was shooting on location. Gone is the deep mid-Atlantic voice of Walter and in its place the relaxed Australian accent of the Shakespeare-trained actor. "I think one of the endearing things about "Fringe" has been the way that Peter and Walter have cautiously re-embraced their relationship and we're going to challenge that," promises Noble. "He must find out that Walter is not his real father and we have to deal with the repercussions of that. It takes us some pretty crazy places, let me tell you."

That's all well and good, but what about Leonard Nimoy? Walter Bishop and William Bell have a very complicated backstory, but to date the two actors have never shared a scene. Do we finally get to see them meet? "We have wonderful scenes together that we have already shot, and I mean really substantial scenes together. Leonard's back big-time in the final couple of episodes." Yes, and what happens? "You know, I'm not going to exactly tell you that," he teases, but he does offer one juicy tidbit: "In fact we bicker like two old ladies. And then finally the truth is revealed."

