Alyssa Milano Gets 'Challenged'
The sexy star talks about her new series, her worst date, and having Arnold Schwarzenegger help her with algebra
By Dave Lake
MSN TV

Alyssa Milano has grown up in front of the camera. She landed the role of Samantha Micelli on "Who's the Boss?" at age 11 and has remained a constant presence on the small screen ever since, both as a regular ("Charmed") and in memorable recurring roles ("My Name Is Earl"). Now 37, Milano is headlining the new ABC sitcom "Romantically Challenged," (premiering April 19 at 9:32) in which she plays a recently divorced mom who's heading back into the dating world after many years away. We caught up with Milano to chat about the role, being a child star, and what she might be doing if she weren't an actor.

MSN TV: What was your dating life like? Are there any particularly painful dates you can draw from for the role?

Alyssa Milano: My dating life was completely challenged. I hated dating. I just feel like we all put up such false pretenses. I don't think there's a person on the planet that can say they've never been romantically challenged in their life, even if they've been married for 42 years. It's such a universal topic that I think is so relatable, and the show is interesting because it's a quirky look at the crazy situations that you're forced to be in when you're trying to find love. I had a date (and I actually ended up marrying him) who, on one of the first vacations we ever took together, went on a boat and got so seasick that he scream-vomited the entire time, which was really attractive. [Laughs.] And he proposed shortly after that vacation.

Well if you stuck with him through that, perhaps he figured it was meant to be.

Exactly. I think that there's a character for everyone to relate to on the show as well.

You've had a lot of success on TV. Have you noticed similarities between the stuff that's worked and the stuff that hasn't? Or does luck play the biggest role in determining a show's fate?

I call it lightning in a bottle because so many elements have to fall into place for a television show to be successful, starting with the casting. Obviously the writing has to be there, chemistry -- and that's just for the pilot. Then it's got to get picked up, and the time slot has to be good, and the promotion has to be good. And then people have to like it. It really is a crap shoot. You just never know, and that's what's so scary.

It's been awhile since you've worked on a sitcom, but does the rhythm of that timing come back like riding a bike?

I don't think you ever really lose it.