Alyssa Milano Gets 'Challenged'
(...Story Continued from Previous Page)

I got to do a lot of comedy on "Charmed" and I did "My Name Is Earl" for a season and a half, and that exercised the comedy chops. The thing that makes it trickier with a show like "Romantically Challenged" is that it's in front of a live audience. But as tricky as that makes it, it also makes it so much more rewarding and exhilarating.

You successfully transitioned from child star to adult star, not only in terms of your career, but in having your feet planted firmly on the ground as well. Is there anything you can put your finger on that speaks to your ability to adjust so well where so many others haven't?

I don't think it's a secret as much as it is just having a great family. And I think that people who aren't in this industry, that weren't raised with a great family, struggle to find themselves and learn the lessons and grow. When you hear these stories about young people struggling in this industry, I think they would struggle no matter what they were doing. I think it all boils down to your family. And I was so blessed to be born into the family that I was, because there was always stability.

You've acted since you were a young girl, but is there another occupation you ever imagined yourself doing?

I feel like I always had a Plan B if this didn't work out, which this still may not. [Laughs.] Because this business is so fickle no matter how long you've been in it. But I used to think that I'd go to med school if there was ever a time that I needed to think about another profession.

Don't you think it would really freak people out if they went to the doctor for a checkup and in walked Alyssa Milano with a stethoscope?

It would be less weird than if I showed up as your plumber or something.

Good point. Maybe you should take a role on a medical drama to bone up on your doctor lingo.

That's the beautiful thing about this business: You get to explore all the different parts of who you are.

Can we quickly run through some of your previous projects and get your first reaction to each one?

Sure.

OK, "Who's the Boss?"

I was so young that I remember very little from that experience except that I loved the people so much.

"Melrose Place."

I love, love, love Heather Locklear, and loved working with her.

"Charmed."

The most fun you could ever have playing a character.

"My Name Is Earl."

An over-the-top, goofy character that was very unlike who I am.

"Castle."

I got to work with my dear friend Nathan Fillion, who I adore and had a great time working with.

"Commando."

Arnold [Schwarzenegger] used to help me with my algebra homework.

"Poison Ivy II."

Fun.

"Hugo Pool."

That was like jumping on to a moving train. The cast was so quick and talented and funny, and a lot of that movie was improvised, so it was a great learning experience.

"Fear."

Awesome. I had the best time doing that movie. I was in Vancouver for three months and became good friends with Reese [Witherspoon] and Mark [Wahlberg] and it was a great experience.

Blink-182's "Josie" music video.

Probably the high point in my entire career. [Laughs.] I had a great time doing that, too. I think that's the only music video I've ever done.