'American Idol' Midseason Report Card
With six contestants remaining, how does Season 9 grade out?
By Bret Federigan
Special to MSN TV

By most accounts, it's not been a banner year for "American Idol." If you'll recall, at this exact point last season, Adam Lambert was well on his way to becoming a cultural phenomenon, Kris Allen was just emerging as his worthy rival and Paula Abdul was still a mushy, coy and unpredictable presence alongside Simon Cowell on the judges' table. But, oh, what a difference a year makes.

More: "Idol" highlights | Season 9 galleryÂ | The best finalists of seasons past

Season 9 has certainly brought "Idol" viewers plenty of change. But, with six weeks left to go before the show crowns a winner, it's safe to say that the change hasn't been for the better. Followers of the show probably could have seen this coming even before the season began. First, there was the announcement that the frequently derided, but overwhelmingly adored Paula would not be returning to the show. Then, there was news that Ellen DeGeneres had been tapped as her replacement. And finally, Simon himself announced that he was jumping ship at the end of this season. The resulting combination of those events cast an odd pall over the proceedings and made for some awkward dynamics right from the get-go.

This season's contestants haven't helped things, either. Their collective talent level, while good, hasn't exactly been overwhelming. In contrast to the last two seasons, it hasn't even been memorable. And in terms of onstage personalities, there's been very little for "Idol" viewers to get excited or riled up about. It all, then, explains why Ryan Seacrest would feel the need to try to be funny (even though he's not) whenever he's on camera or when his mic is hot.

But, despite all this, America keeps tuning in on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. And I'd like to think it's because, like me, most viewers are hoping to be inspired and excited by what they'll see and hear. "American Idol" has been good to us in the past. Surely, it would seem, it can rebound from this disappointing season. The good news is that we still have six weeks left to go. And that's plenty of time for Crystal and company to step it up, capture our imaginations and get America talking again around the water cooler. It's also enough time for the judges to wake up and start looking like they're interested in what's going on. Heck, with Kate Gosselin voted off "Dancing With the Stars," the show might even reclaim its customary spot atop the weekly TV ratings.

We've got six contestants remaining, so it seems appropriate to take stock of Season 9. Here now, a midseason report card for America's most celebrated and most scrutinized reality television series.

The Singers

Each year, the producers and judges tout the newest batch of contestants as the best, most talented yet. And each year, "Idol" nation accepts the bold conceit with blind faith. But it's an especially difficult assertion to swallow this time around, given the relatively lackluster performances the top 12 singers have mustered. Season 9 has been dominated by acoustic guitar-heavy, folk rocker types -- not exactly the sorts of performers who are likely to blaze any musical trails or bring the house down. Season-long favorite Crystal Bowersox has impressed the judges with her Janis Joplin-like delivery, but hers is not a sound we haven't heard before. The same could be said of most of her fellow competitors.

What's more, in terms of sheer personalities, the pickings have been slim. About the only contestant who's been able to offer up a unique act has been oddball Siobhan Magnus, though she's probably done so unintentionally. It would be hard to brand her quirky onstage theatrics as the height of showmanship, but it's been easy to find her persona endearing especially when juxtaposed against her middle-of-the-road competition. Right now, all signs point to a season-ending showdown between Crystal and Lee Dewyze.