Buzzing Hollywood with 'The Green Hornet'

The trailer for 'The Green Hornet' premieres, and we get a sneak peek

By Don Kaye 
Special to MSN Movies

Sony Pictures kicked off the marketing push for its upcoming action film "The Green Hornet" on Monday night (June 21), inviting MSN and several other outlets to a private screening of the film's first official trailer hours before it premiered online and was scheduled to be broadcast on ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live" (more on that later). The trailer screening was followed by a chat with star and co-writer Seth Rogen, director Michel Gondry, producer Neal Moritz and co-writer Evan Goldberg, each giving their insights into what we saw in the trailer and how they approached bringing this now somewhat obscure pulp hero back to life as a modern crime fighter.

First the trailer: Although the character has surfaced in a radio show, a TV series, a movie serial and a series of comic books from the '40s through the present, many viewers might not be familiar with the Hornet's history. The new trailer gives essentially an origin story -- crucial information for viewers who don't know the character -- and does it flash, humor and energy.Â Initially,Â we meet Rogen as careless, carefree Britt Reid, an heir to a newspaper fortune who grapples with the aimlessness of his life when his father, crusading news magnate Jack Reid (Tom Wilkinson), is killed. We see the development of his Green Hornet vigilante persona, the unfolding of his relationship with his father's genius employee Kato (Jay Chou), the introduction of the Black Beauty -- their arsenal on wheels -- and a series of action setpieces, explosions and fights that send a lot of cars and bad guys flying. All this and Cameron Diaz, as Reid's new secretary.

Following the trailer, Rogen, Moritz, Gondry and Goldberg discussed the production and the challenge of introducing what many will consider a "new" superhero. For audiences used to seeing Rogen in comedy roles, the sight of him as an action hero might be a jarring one: "There is comedy, but overall the tone is not a spoof," says Gondry in his thick French accent. "We never intended to do something comical. We really embraced the superhero (genre), and there are serious parts. Of course there is some comedy, but I think it's more of an action movie." Moritz adds, "We always talk about as an action movie with comedy versus a comedy with action."

Rogen addresses head-on the rumors that surfaced around the production when it was decided to convert it to 3-D and bump the release date from December 2010 to January 2011, saying, "The first thing people like you say is that the studio is forcing us to do and it's a quick fix," the actor says. "The funny thing is, it could not be more opposite. It was us begging and pleading as creative entities to the studio to allow us to have this tool to tell our story in an original way. And we're super excited that we were able to do it."

Gondry was attached to a "Green Hornet" film 13 years ago, while Rogen and Goldberg have also been working on it for years, and Rogen points out that this is a far more difficult superhero property to get made into a film than "Thor" or "Captain America." He says, "I remember when 'Iron Man' came out. I drove by a billboard with my girlfriend and she said, 'Who's Iron Man?' Believe it or not, he was a relatively unknown Marvel character when that first movie came out. And they did a good job at introducing it ... they successfully took a pretty obscure character and made him well-known and introduced him to people, and that's kind of what we realized we had to do -- not show our version of the Green Hornet but say here's what the f--- the Green Hornet is."

At the end of the chat, filmmakers, studio reps and reporters all headed across the street to the Hollywood Boulevard studio where "Kimmel" is filmed. And this is where it got kind of odd. For a while, all of us were hanging out in the green room/backstage lounge, where Rogen continued to informally chat with our group (his enthusiasm about 3-D and his passion for this project are both really quite sincere and impressive) while waiting to go on the show. Then we got word that the power was out in the control room and the show could not be taped. Kimmel apparently got the idea to film the show on his laptop, and Rogen gamely went on with his segment. But further technical outages forced Kimmel to halt again and reschedule the whole thing for Tuesday night (June 22).

By the time the green room itself went eerily dark -- the Kimmel studio was the only building on the block affected -- it was looking more and more like tonight's story would have a different ending than the one originally planned. But after years of trying to get "The Green Hornet" on the screen, Seth Rogen, Michel Gondry and the rest of their team are probably not worried about a little blackout. Next stop for the Hornet: San Diego Comic-Con a month from now. Will this seemingly random assembly of talent make this "Green Hornet" into a truly different and special superhero movie? Watch the full trailer and decide for yourself