2015 Critics' Choice Awards: Michael Strahan Strips, Emily Blunt & John Krasinski's Cuteness & More—Plus, Full Winners List!


The 2015 Critics' Choice Movie Awards sure had an exciting start!

    
Host Michael Strahan kicked the show off with a bang when he opted to drop trous during his opening monologue (we're not kidding, just look at the pic!).

Initially, the morning show co-host danced fully clothed alongside some shirtless strippers, but then he decided to rip off his pants to really give the audience something to remember...and to show off those legs.

"Maybe next year I'll be down there with you nominees for my role in Magic Mike, you never know!" he said before he ripped his pants off. "I worry about them cutting me out of the movie and if they cut me out, nobody's going to see it. So how about we give you a little something right now."

Always thinking about the people, Michael. Thank you.

The next memorable moment came to us from Critics' Choice winner Emily Blunt and hubby John Krasinski.
    
The 31-year-old actress picked up the award for Best Actress in an Action Movie for her work in the film Edge of Tomorrow, and when she went up on stage, Krasinski popped up from behind her as he was backstage getting ready to present an award himself to congratulate her!

Blunt gave out a genuine "yay!" squeal and then the two embraced quickly before she delivered her speech which thanked her "sneaky" husband. SO CUTE!

The Lego Movie may have been snubbed by the Oscars, but it walked away a winner tonight with the award for Best Animated Movie (so you guys can be happy about that).

Jessica Chastain was presented with the first-ever MVP Award and delivered a powerful speech that touched on the lack of diversity in the industry.

"Today is Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday, so it got me thinking about our need to build the strength of diversity in our industry, and to stand together against homophobic, sexist, misogynistic, anti-Semitic and racist agendas," the 37-year-old actress, also a Best Supporting Actress nominee tonight for A Most Violent Year, continued.

"I'm an optimist and I can't help but feel hopeful about the future of film, especially looking at all of the beautiful people in this room.

"Martin Luther King Jr. said, ‘Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.' and I would like to encourage everyone in this room to please speak up. Thank you."

Here is the full list of winners from the 2015 Critics' Choice Awards:

Best Picture: Boyhood
Best Actor: Michael Keaton, Birdman
Best Actress: Julianne Moore, Still Alice
Best Supporting Actor: J.K. Simmons, Whiplash
Best Supporting Actress: Patricia Arquette, Boyhood
Best Director: Richard Linklater, Boyhood
Best Animated Feature: The Lego Movie
Best Comedy: The Grand Budapest Hotel
Best Actor in a Comedy: Michael Keaton, Birdman
Best Actress in a Comedy: Jenny Slate, Obvious Child
Best Sci-fi/Horror Film: InterstellarBest Foreign Film: Force Majeure
Best Song: "Glory," Common and John Legend (Selma)
Best Score: Antonio Sanchez, BirdmanBest Acting Ensemble: Birdman
Best Action Movie: Guardians of the Galaxy
Best Actor in an Action Movie: Bradley Cooper, American Sniper
Best Actress in an Action Movie: Emily Blunt, Edge of Tomorrow
Best Young Actor/Actress: Ellar Coltrane, Boyhood
Best Original Screenplay: Birdman, Alejandro G. Inarritu, Nicolas Giacobone, Alexander Dinelaris, Jr., Armando Bo
Best Adapted Screenplay: Gone Girl, Gillian Flynn
Best Cinematography: Birdman, Emmanuel Lubezki
Best Art Direction: The Grand Budapest Hotel, Adam Stockhausen/Production Designer, Anna Pinnock/Set Decorator "Inherent Vice" – David Crank/Production Designer, Amy Wells/Set Decorator
Best Editing: Birdman, Douglas Crise, Stephen Mirrione
Best Costume Design: The Grand Budapest Hotel, Milena Canonero
Best Hair and Makeup: Guardians of the Galaxy
Best Visual Effects: Dawn of the Planet of the Apes
Lifetime Achievement Award: Kevin Costner
MVP Award: Jessica Chastain