Oscars: ‘American Sniper’ Hits Target With Academy Voters; ‘Boyhood,’ ‘Grand Budapest Hotel’ Lead Field

Eight was the magic number for the Academy's Best Picture lineup this year, with voters nominating awards season stalwarts "Birdman," "Boyhood," "The Imitation Game" and "Theory of Everything" along with this year's indie stand-out "Whiplash," the late-surging "American Sniper" and "The Grand Budapest Hotel," and the civil rights drama "Selma," which marched into the field despite being snubbed in the writing, directing and acting categories.

"Birdman" and "The Grand Budapest Hotel" led the way with nine nominations each, followed by "The Imitation Game" with eight nominations and "Boyhood" and "American Sniper" with six nominations.

"Nightcrawler," "Foxcatcher," "Gone Girl," "Unbroken," "Interstellar," "Inherent Vice" and "A Most Violent Year" were among the well-reviewed movies that failed to make the Best Picture field, which has never had a full slate of 10 nominees.

The inclusion of "Foxcatcher" filmmaker Bennett Miller in the Best Director category was the pleasant surprise of the morning. He's joined by obvious choices Richard Linklater and Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, American auteur Wes Anderson and Norwegian filmmaker Morten Tyldum. DGA nominee Clint Eastwood failed to make the cut along with "Selma" director Ava DuVernay.

While many had speculated that Steve Carell's chokehold on a nomination was weakening, the season's four frontrunners remained standing, while voters targeted Bradley Cooper for the coveted "fifth slot" rather than Jake Gyllenhaal and David Oyelowo.

Best Actress provided a jolt when Marion Cotillard beat out Jennifer Aniston and Amy Adams for a nomination. She's joined by the four female frontrunners throughout the season -- Julianne Moore, Reese Witherspoon, Rosamund Pike and Felicity Jones.

Best Supporting Actor was chalk -- the five actors every pundit predicted were all bestowed nominations, including Robert Duvall, Ethan Hawke, Edward Norton, Mark Ruffalo and presumed favorite J.K. Simmons.

The surprise in the Best Supporting Actress category has to be "Wild" star Laura Dern, who edged out Rene Russo and Jessica Chastain for a nomination. Patricia Arquette will have to hold off fellow nominees Meryl Streep, Keira Knightley and Emma Stone.

Dan Gilroy's original screenplay proved to be "Nightcrawler's" lone nomination, which provoked some applause during the live announcement telecast. Other nominees in the category are "Birdman," "Boyhood," "Foxcatcher" and "The Grand Budapest Hotel."

Paul Thomas Anderson's "Inherent Vice" earned its sole nomination in the Adapted Screenplay category, where it'll face stiff competition in the form of "The Imitation Game," "The Theory of Everything," "Whiplash" and "American Sniper," which came on strong in recent weeks as support swelled for Warner Bros.' war drama.